Abstract: The Active Data Archive Product Tracking, ADAPT, project comprises an effort to provide descriptions of data collected by missions supported by the NASA Science Mission Directorate Heliophysics Division. NASA Heliophysics sponsors research focused on the study of the dynamics of the Sun and the solar wind along their impacts on and coupling with planetary systems. Such studies involve the use of data collected by a vast armada of spacecraft, cube-sats, scientific balloons, sounding rockets, and ground-based observatories, jointly entitled the "Heliophysics System Observatory", bolstered by information from empirical models and computer simulations. The availability of data collected is enabled through the implementation of the NASA Heliophysics Science Data Management Policy, which stresses the need to maximize open access to data products that are scientifically germane to our community. Members of the Heliophysics Data Environment, HPDE, consortium have led a parallel project to develop an XML schema called Space Physics Archive, Search, and Extract. SPASE, as it is called, has been specifically tailored for precise description of the numerous types of data required to effectively study coupling between the Sun, the heliosphere, and solar system bodies. The ADAPT project has been designed to automate the generation of Heliophysics related SPASE data product descriptions. Furthermore, the ADAPT project is committed to providing accurate, precise, and complete descriptions of Heliophysics data products and related resources through the implementation of quality control methods and through the adoption of and adherence to uniform metadata population standards. The core software that enables ADAPT is comprised of IDL software to harvest metadata that is then utilized to populate and write SPASE data product descriptions. A collection of UNIX shell scripts and other software provides an ecosystem for collecting the information that ADAPT uses to describe Heliophysics data products. In this presentation, we wish to expose details related to effective production of SPASE data product descriptions in general and to the ADAPT approach in particular. We also want to seek community feedback concerning the production of SPASE resource description of Heliophysics resources. For instance, it is clear that the metadata richness of the SPASE schema still does not provide the means to sufficiently annotate, for instance, the phenomena observed by Heliophysics missions. Such annotation is vital in facilitation of studies involving data mining and machine learning.
